1.jpg - Don Girnt, a longtime trooper with the Colorado State Patrol, stands in the area where a Union Pacific passenger train hit a school bus on Dec. 14, 1961, killing 20 children. Girnt was the first officer on the scene that day and was the lead investigator for the state patrol. (CHRIS SCHNEIDER/ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS) 1.

2.jpg - Colorado State Patrol Sgt. Adam Robison walks past the front section of the wrecked bus while a woman stands over the body of a child. Robison supervised the investigation of the deadliest traffic accident in Colorado history. (JIM HITCH/GREELEY TRIBUNE/1961) 2.

3.jpg - The rear section of the school bus rests on the south side of the tracks 455 feet from the crossing where the accident occurred. Only one child in the rear of the bus survived the accident. (BARBER/1961) 3.

4.jpg - People wander around the scene in the aftermath of the accident. As word of the tragedy spread, hundreds of people rushed to the crossing about five miles southeast of Greeley. (COLORADO STATE PATROL/1961) 4.

5.jpg - This view into the front section of the bus shows the devastation unleashed when a passenger train, moving at 79 mph, smashed into it. The crash sliced the bus into two pieces. The front section was tossed 192 feet from the crossing. (COLORADO STATE PATROL/1961) 5.

6.jpg - Part of a jacket sleeve and a sock rest on the ground amid the wreckage. The impact was so powerful it scattered children, their belongings, metal and glass for hundreds of feet. (COURTESY KAREN WALSO SCHOTT) 6.

7.jpg - Unidentified mourners walk through a cemetery for services for victims of the train-bus crash. In a span of five days, services were held in Greeley and Fort Collins for all 20 children killed. (BILL PEERY/ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS/1961) 7.

8.jpg - Pallbearers carry the casket of Ellen Craven to a hearse after a memorial service for her; her brother, Calvin; and their cousin, Gerry Baxter. The three were buried next to each other at Sunset Memorial Gardens in Greeley. (BILL PEERY/ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS/1961) 8.

9.jpg - A farmer stands next to the battered railroad crossing sign four days after the tragedy. The crossing had no flashing lights or automatic arms, just two road signs to warn motorists. (BILL PEERY/ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS/1961) 9.